#summary Creating an Application

= Creating an Application=


To create an application in EasyGSP, simply create a folder in the %EASYGSP_HOME%/webapps directory.  A folder in this directory represents an application. 


<font color="red">
*%EASYGSP_HOME%/webapps refers to the HTDOCS or DocumentRoot directory of your HTTP Server.  You can point your HTTP Server here or create a link so that %EASYGSP_HOME%/webapps will get you to your HTTP content.*
</font>

*Application Directory Layout*
{{{
 +-- $EASYGSP_HOME
       |
       +-- webapps
            |
            +- MyApp
                |
                |--index.gsp
}}}

*web.groovy*

Each application can have a web.groovy file. The web.groovy file allows you to specify what, if anything, needs to happen on application and session start and end events.

Like servlet based applications, EasyGSP applications can have a WEB-INF directory.  Within this directory the web.groovy file resides.If there is no web.groovy file, one will be created when the application starts.  Whenever this file is modified, the application will restart.

{{{
 +-- $EASYGSP_HOME
       |
       +-- webapps
            |
            +-- MyApp
                 | 
                 |-- index.gsp
                 +-- WEB-INF
                      |
                      |-- web.groovy
}}}

This file can have the following methods

||Method||Description||
||onApplicationStart||Invoked when the application is initially started and on the first request after the file has been altered.  ||
||onApplicationEnd || Invoked when the server is shutdown. ||
||onSessionStart || Invoked immediately after a session is created||
||onSessionEnd|| Invoked when a session expires, is invalidated or when an application is restarted.||

  * *onApplicationStart* and *onApplicationEnd* accept an app parameter which is a reference to the application (or ServletContext).
  * *onSessionStart* and *onSessionEnd* accept a reference to the session object in use.


Example - web.groovy:
{{{
class web {
        def onApplicationStart(app){
        }

        def onApplicationEnd(app){
        }

        def onSessionStart(session){
        }

        def onSessionEnd(session){
        }
}
}}}