#summary Installing  EasyGSP
= Installing EasyGSP =

Easy GSP requires Java 1.6 or greater, an HTTP server (preferably LightTPD, but Apache works) and optionally MySQL if you want to try MySQL based virtual hosting with LightTPD.

==Linux==

There are a ton of tutorials on how to install all of the required software for EasyGSP.  Simply google installation instructions for installing the following for your distro:
  * Install Sun's latest JDK
  * Install LightTPD  (If you decide to build from source make sure you build with: --with-mysql ,--with-openssl) or Apache HTTP Server



* Installing EasyGSP *
  * cd /usr/local
  * Download the latest version of EasyGSP from http://code.google.com/p/easygsp/downloads/list
  * tar -xvf easygsp-`[version`].tar.gz
  * rm easygsp-`[version`].tar.gz
  * ln -s easygsp-`[version`] easygsp
  * cd /usr/local/easygsp/bin
  * chmod +x start.sh
  * cdmod +x stop.sh


  
If you installed easygsp or java to a path different than what is listed above, open the following files and reference the correct paths:

  * $EASYGSP_HOME/bin/stop.sh
  * $EASYGSP_HOME/bin/start.sh
  * $EASYGSP_HOME/conf/cache.ccf   (update property:         *`jcs.auxiliary.DC.attributes.DiskPath`*)

* Start EasyGSP *

  * start EasyGSP > ./start.sh


* Configure HTTP Server* 
  * See Configure LightTPD and Apache sections below.

----

==Windows==
  * *Install Java*
    # Download the latest jdk from http://java.sun.com
    # Install

  * *Install LightTPD (or Apache)*
    # Goto the WMLP Project Site http://en.wlmp-project.net/downloads.php 
    # Download the latest and greatest w/OpenSSL support
    # Install to c:\LightTPD
  * *Install Apache*
    # The Apache HTTP server is available for Windows from [http://httpd.apache.org   apache.org]
    # Or you could download an all in one solution like [http://www.apachefriends.org/en/index.html Apache Friends] windows install.

     
  * *Configure HTTP Server*
    # See Configure LightTPD and Apache sections below.



  * *Installing EasyGSP*
    # Download EasyGSP @ http://code.google.com/p/easygsp/downloads/list
    # Unzip to c:\
    # Rename dir c:\easygsp-`[VERSION`] to c:\easygsp

  * *Start EasyGSP*
    # c:\easygsp\EasyGSP.bat
----

==Configuring LightTPD==

Locate the lighttpd.conf file, rename it, and download a config that will work with EasyGSP.  It's usually at /etc/lighttpd/lighttpd.conf or  lighttpd-inc.conf file @ C:\LightTPD\conf or windows.

Basically, you enable mod_scgi, setup up the scgi_server and extensions, prevent the groovy, gsp and gpsx pages from being served by Lighttpd and add the EasyGSP pages to the welcome/index pages list

{{{
     
    server.modules              = (
                                "mod_scgi",
                                "... all of the other mods"
                                ) 
 
      url.access-deny             	= ( "~", ".inc", "WEB-INF")
      static-file.exclude-extensions 	= (  ".gsp", ".gspx", ".groovy")
      index-file.names            	= ( "index.gsp", "index.gspx", "index.html", "index.htm", "default.htm", "index`")
      scgi.server  = (
                ".gspx" =>
			( "localhost" =>
				(
					"host" => "127.0.0.1",
					"port" =>  4444
				)
			),
		".gsp" =>
			( "localhost" =>
				(
					"host" => "127.0.0.1",
					"port" =>  4444
				)
			)			
			
		)											

}}}
 
or you could download this lighttpd conf that already does all of this
  * $ cd /etc/lighttpd
  * $ mv lighttpd.conf lighttpd.conf.old
  * $ wget http://easygsp.googlecode.com/files/lighttpd.conf  (Use as a starter or reference, or you could merge this file with your existing config file)

restart LightTPD


----

==Configuring Apache==

Add the following to the httpd.conf.  Remaining Apache configuration details are forthcoming as this configuration is not as complete as the LightTPD example.

{{{
         LoadModule scgi_module modules/mod_scgi.so
         SCGIMount / 127.0.0.1:4444
 
         <locationmatch [^(\.gsp|\.gspx)]$>
	     SCGIHandler Off
         </locationmatch>

}}}



Create EASYGSP_HOME and JAVA_HOME environment variables that point to the installation directories.

restart Apache